[Music]
Excuse me, teacher, I have a few questions and I hope
you can answer them. Because I live far away, I
can't come in person to ask for your analysis.
The idea that a husband must be
more intelligent than his wife and earn more
money than her to avoid being looked down upon
caused my breakup with my boyfriend
when he realized I was
more capable than him. I hope you can help me understand this.
Yes, this is a question that many women probably face
when they have a family,
right? Many women earn
more than their husbands, so many problems arise.
I hope that today, after receiving the
answer, you can listen attentively
and come up with solutions for yourselves.
Ladies and gentlemen, do men
like it when their wives are more capable than them? Some do, some do
n't, right? And do
men accept
staying home to cook while their wives go to work?
This question is very relevant to their
psychology. Some
might accept staying home to cook and
take care of the children while their wives work, but most do
n't, right?  The problem is that she does
n't
accept it. Dear friends, she also
understands that
because she's
in a similar situation with her husband, it's not that
her husband
earns less
than her, but rather that
in conversations,
her understanding and ability to
analyze issues more thoroughly than her husband's are.
However,
after some time communicating, she
realized that she had been too harsh. The problem was that her
husband
didn't accept that she might be
more knowledgeable than him. Because he didn't accept this, he
started acting
more bossy. That is, he
decided to just accept it without
discussing right or wrong,
using his authority as the husband to make decisions. That's the
reverse reaction.
After realizing this,
she changed her strategy:
whatever the issue, she just said what she wanted to say, and then
left it unresolved in the end.
Going to the bottom of the
story is about right and wrong in another issue.
That is, if we accept our weaker position
from the beginning, then the family will be
normal. Ladies and gentlemen, when I posted
the video about the secret to being a good daughter-in-law and loving your son-in-law,
I received many comments
saying things like, "I gave birth to a daughter,
and I can't let her have to
obey her husband's family like that," or "She should
love and serve her husband a
little bit because now there is
equality." These two words, "equality,"
but who accepts this
equality? It's the men and
women. Can
the
men accept it? Can the men accept it when the women come home from work and ask, "Is dinner ready for me?" Can they accept that? It's easy to say it in writing, on paper, in articles, right? Men and
women are equal, but who accepts it? It's
us. Has
this generation accepted it
yet? I will talk about acceptance.
If we accept equality, there wouldn't
be extramarital affairs. Why does this happen?  The phenomenon of
infidelity occurs because when a man goes out, he
sees another woman who
needs more protection than his wife because at home,
everything is equal – "I'm your equal,
you're no better than me." But
the woman outside says, "Honey,
I can't live without you,"
while the woman at home says, "
Don't think you're so great, I can
live perfectly
fine without you." Now we have to see if
we accept this, then
we can start learning how to communicate
and how to treat each other within the family. Do
you agree? Although it's equality now, there's
another kind of equality: equality in finances. And in
terms of communication and behavior
at home, men always want the
woman to be a little softer, while
they want to be a little tougher,
right? And they want to have the right to
make decisions, even though the wife only
participates in giving opinions. The
final decision-maker is the man. Have you gotten rid of
that mindset from
your sluggish way of life? At some
point...  Society will only
accept equality later, not
now, right?
That means in a family life, two
people with knowledge exchange
will eventually adapt to
that equality; we can't impose
equality on everything right now, can we? Some
girls message me saying, "Teacher, I'm about to become a daughter-in-law, but I do
n't know how to
help at all. I'm so confused and
bewildered. When I go to his house,
his mother asks me to do chores, and I have to cook, but I do
n't know how to cook at all. I
see her face looking at me with a very
surprised expression." And now, some mothers
also come to my page and say, "
I gave birth to a daughter, I didn't have to
do any chores," but do those mothers go to their
husband's house to receive that
surprised look? Or is it the daughter who
has to accept
it? After accepting it, the mother has to
go back and tell her son, right?
Because how can we forbid communication
between mother and child, right?
If, at that time, the child were to stand up and
defend their lover, that would be very bad, would
n't it? "Don't worry, Mom, I'll
cook for my wife, not her." "Do
n't worry." "I
chose my wife so I could cook for her." Would
my son be able to say that
to his mother?
Therefore, the inherent role of women
cannot be changed at
this moment, right? That's why
mothers who teach their
daughters, "I didn't give birth to you to serve
others, I'll find you a husband for
you." "Your husband is your husband, he serves you,"
sooner or later, this mother will have both children
and grandchildren to
raise, right?
That's what
equality is like. It's
still equality, but equality in
how the wife loves and serves her
husband a little. That's where
equality arises. From there,
the husband feels the wife's virtue and
will willingly serve her. That's the
equality we all desire,
right, young people?  That voluntary equality is what's
desired because the
husband will feel compassion for his wife for her hard work,
right? He'll love her because of that
love. That love
makes the husband willingly help his wife and children,
not just
take a piece of paper and say, "We're
married, so we must be equal. I'll
cook, and you have to pick the vegetables." Then,
naturally, there will be someone
waiting for him outside, right?
Because society is like that now,
so we have to know how to adapt to live.
We're like swimming in a
stream; we have to choose
our strength to overcome the conflicts.
Husband and
wife must adapt,
like a swimmer in a stream,
right? Young people, men
must choose, women must choose, right? To
reach happiness, both
sides must choose, not just have some kind of
equality written on paper,
right? You have to be like that, you have to be
like that. In Buddhism, it's said that
the mind is impermanent. When in love...  So the mindset
changes, right? When you get married,
your mindset changes, and your work also
changes a lot, so it attracts that kind of
mindset. For example,
at the office, you know, today you get promoted or
praised by your boss, but today you get scolded by your boss, your
mindset will be different at home. But today you get scolded by your boss, and your mindset at home will be
different, okay? So, a woman
only becomes a cooling fan, you
understand? That's why you have to learn
a lot, learn how to behave with your parents,
learn how to behave with your husband, learn how to make your
husband happy.
Then, men will willingly
serve their wives and children without any written
agreement. To serve them, you have to
win your husband's affection.
Right, ladies? So today I
also advise you, ladies, if
your mother advises you to choose
someone who loves and
serves you, you should reply, "Mom,
I'll do exactly as you say. If
my husband has any problems, I'll ask permission to
take the children back for you to raise."
Right? That's right, we have to choose,
you know. It means that when my husband
comes home, he feels more at ease than when
he goes out to a restaurant, you see? It
means that cooking at home also
requires knowing how to cook well. Once
I know how to cook well, then
with the love between husband and wife, we can
cook together. But actually, if you take a bowl of rice, a
stir-fried vegetable dish becomes a braised vegetable dish,
right? A braised meat dish becomes a boiled meat dish? Then,
of course, after eating
like that for about five meals, suddenly a
female colleague from work invites you over to cook
for a meal, and of course,
that meal will be impressive, and
that colleague will be impressive too, you see?
So we still have to understand psychology, we
can't just bring equality into this,
right? When the wife is
skillful, the husband will also want to
cook with his wife. It's all about how we
behave. "Hey, husband, today you're
here working with me, you like your wife
because she cooks well for you, so you like it,
and you want to
cook too, right?"  And if a stew
becomes a boiled dish, or a stir-fry becomes a stew, then even if my
husband tells me to come help, I can't just stand by and do nothing,
right? So,
I'll add something about the discrimination in the
mentality of people in the South now. That's
why we have
n't achieved complete equality yet. I
don't know how much equality Western countries have,
but
I only know that this is the
current mentality of Vietnamese people and
young people. Today, this young person
clearly shows this:
when their girlfriend
discovers they are more talented than the girl,
the guy
decides to break up. In
this situation, the girl
should do this: That's my opinion.
When we're in love, we should
prioritize feelings, right? I
earn money and he earns money, both to
provide for our lives.
Our fate brought us together, we fell in love and got
married. We shouldn't...  Let's put aside
the economic aspect. Life has its ups and downs.
Even if you make a lot of
money now, you can't be sure you
'll be healthy enough to continue making money. There might be
times when you have accidents, illnesses, or diseases. At
those times, love is still more important, right?
So when we love each other, let's
put love first.
Don't put material things first. Whether the wife
makes money or the husband makes money,
sometimes the wife makes it, sometimes the husband makes it, right?
And our
career is a shared career, a
shared career. Because if he has
fame and success, he can help our
children; if you have fame and success, you can help our children.
But don't
judge love based on wealth or position. Don't judge love based on
whether he cares about you or you care about him.
That's what we give and receive from
each other. Money is only for maintaining
life; it's not the
deciding factor in our happiness. Do
you agree?  We can
develop our
careers comfortably, and we should always
look at our husbands by whether
they still love us. Okay, if the husband still loves his wife, still cares for and looks after
her, then she should still care for, look after,
and love him. Then, both sides should
talk about the
timeframe. Nowadays, women are
very busy; sometimes they work,
and in that work, due to
their abilities, they are
promoted to managers, right?
Because being a manager
takes up a lot of time, when
you decide to be promoted,
discuss it with your husband. Later, you can
discuss it with your husband: "I'm going to be promoted to
this position, and
this position will take up
this much time. So, you'll have to dedicate more time to
taking care of the children. Do you
agree?"
That is, you ask if he agrees,
then you go along with it, and if he doesn't, then you can just
stay where you are and
support each other. Once he agrees, then the
man...  My
husband will agree and
help me in this situation and help
my family. Do you ladies agree?
At that time, the husband also
feels that if he doesn't help, the wife
can't do it because who will look after the children,
right? If my husband doesn't help,
I can't do it either. It's just
a blessing for the whole family,
putting this place in the
wife's hands and that place in the husband's hands. I
think what I mean is that you should
discuss things before falling in
love. Since you've been married, you've had
discussions about
all aspects of life and
agreed that everything you do is
based on mutual agreement and serves your life.
Everything serves
your life, not just
yours. You two should respect each other,
not judge your life based on money or status from the
outside.
Don't use that as a measure of
your love. That's my opinion.
Yes, I would also like to take
this opportunity to...  I was asked a question:
In this
case, if the wife has higher finances than the
husband, and she is
not good at
housework, or if she is also burdened by her husband's
thoughts and feelings,
how should the husband behave to maintain
harmony in the home? Here, I will consider the husband's perspective, meaning the wife lacks
financial resources, is not skillful at housework, and doesn't generate income. To be honest, if the wife does
n't generate income and isn't
good at housework, it's
very difficult for the husband to love her. She said that it's almost impossible
because the
wife has to be the support system for her husband. If you're not
good at finances,
you have to know how to take care of the
house. That means you have to develop yourself, and
when you develop yourself, you also find
joy, right? When you don't have
financial resources, when the husband comes home, he
sees the children being taught to greet their father by their mother, or
creating fun activities in the yard. The father will love his
wife, won't he?  Mother, yes. But if you're
not good at it, if you don't earn money, then when you come
home you see that your children aren't being
taught, then there's housework, and you ca
n't even cook properly. Honestly,
I find it hard to accept, unless there are
no more women in the world. Do
you agree? I'm
just asking you ladies: Do you want to
become someone who, if they don't earn money, does
n't do housework?
So, ladies,
we should try to develop our strengths in other
areas. We should
find a strength to
develop and contribute to our family. A wife
must contribute to her family,
to her children, to
her husband, and to both sides of the family.
Without a wife, there would be
no success. For example, even
though she doesn't earn money, on special occasions like the anniversary of a death, the Lunar New Year, and the 4th day of the
lunar month, if the
wife knows how to go to the market, is resourceful, and cooks well, then the
whole family will respect her,
right? My mother-
in-law said that when it comes to cooking, she's just...
That's the best part, then naturally
your position in the family will rise,
you see? So,
whatever you lack, you must
have something else; you can't be completely useless. Being
completely useless does
n't correspond to the pursuit of
happiness. That is, I marry to be
happy, I marry
to be happy. But if the husband doesn't have any happiness at all, it doesn't match the purpose of finding a wife, right? And if the husband doesn't bring any
happiness to his wife, it doesn't match the wife's purpose of finding a husband either, right? That means you
have to know how to comfort your wife, you have to know that if you do
n't earn money, you have to be
an emotional and spiritual support
for your wife. If she has any problems
outside, she should tell her husband, and he should
accept, comfort, and encourage her, right? Then
naturally, no one else will
share with you. That's what's called "first wife, second
husband, first husband, second wife." Only then can there be
happiness.
Yes, I hope this question and the
answer will be helpful.  She hopes that,
regardless of gender, there
will be empathy, sharing, and
understanding within the family to help each other maintain
family happiness
.